# Astro6410
This repository is for my final project for Astro 6410 (Spring 2020). My goal was to apply generative classification techniques to a research project on supernova emission. By using a training set of stars that show a possible remnant-based spectral feature, other stars with potential signals may be selected out of a larger sample.
## The Data
### Supernova Remnants
Supernova remnant information comes from a catalogue of Galactic SNRs (Green 2019). I focus on remnants with distance estimates, so as to select stars behind the remnant with light that passes through (hopefully picking up spectral features of the remnant material). The catalogue is the file: **GreenSNR.vot**; distance information I pulled from Green's website/literature is stored in the file: **SNR_distances.csv**.
### Stellar Spectra & Parameters
Stellar data is all from APOGEE, with about ~6500 stars available within 5degrees of remnants in Green's catalogue. In lieu of uploading several thousand APOGEE stars, I made a file that stores the relevant information: **Stars_in_SNRs.fits** The code used to make this file is in **PrepFiles/Stars_in_SNRs_maker.ipynb**.
Within **Stars_in_SNRs.fits** is information on stellar parameters, remnant proximity, distance, and emission strength. I have also included the residual spectra and observed-reference-frame wavelength arrays for plotting the region of interest (16000-16120AA). All of these have dedicated headers in the .fits file. The two values of interest are the emission strength, and separation from the remnant center. Because all relevant remnants have distances, I have calculated both the angular and physical separations for use in classification.
#### Spectra Processing & Emission Strength
In order to detect an interstellar emission feature at 16065AA, the spectra needed to be processed to remove stellar features. I did this by dividing an ASPCAP synthetic spectrum from the observed spectrum, which produces a residual. To further remove stellar features, I created a library of median residual spectra. The file is too large to share here, but I include the code used to make it for those interested: **PrepFiles/StellarMasks_maker.ipynb**.
## Classification
There are two methods of classification used in this project - Gaussian Naive Bayes (GNB) and Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA). GNB assumes conditional independence between data features and models the probability densities of labels and data features with a 1D Gaussian. LDA allows for correlations between features but requires identical covariance matricies, so the decision boundary between classes is a line. The two data features used for classifying are emission strength ('EMSTR') and either angular ('ANG_SEP') or physical ('PHYS_SEP') separation from the remnant center.
### Classification Code
There are four total notebooks for classification, which each use one method of generating probabilities (GNB, LDA) and one separation (Angular, Physical). For example, the notebook which uses GNB and angular separation is titled **GNB_Angular.ipynb**. Each code uses a training set of visually inspected stars to generate label probability density models, and applies these models to the remaining set of stars. Labels of emission 'detections' then have their spectra plotted for visual inspection. Further notes on how the code runs are included in each notebook.
